It is man’s duty to live in conformity with the divine will, and this means, firstly, bringing his life into line with ‘nature’s laws’, and secondly, resigning himself completely and uncomplainingly to whatever fate may send him. Only by living thus, and not setting too high a value on things which can at any moment be taken away from him, can he discover that true, unshakeable peace and contentment to which ambition, luxury and above all avarice are among the greatest obstacles.

Yellow highlight | Location: 389
Living ‘in accordance with nature’ means not only questioning convention and training ourselves to do without all except the necessities (plain food, water, basic clothing and shelter) but developing the inborn gift of reason which marks us off as
                

Orange highlight | Location: 392
‘there’s nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so’
                

Orange highlight | Location: 397
wisdom (or moral insight), courage, self-control and justice (or upright dealing).
                

Blue highlight | Location: 400
‘the shortest route to wealth is the contempt of wealth.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 562
To be everywhere is to be nowhere. People who spend their whole life travelling abroad end up having plenty of places where they can find hospitality but no real friendships.
                

Blue highlight | Location: 572
Each day, too, acquire something which will help you to face poverty, or death, and other ills as well.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 575
cheerful poverty,’ he says, ‘is an honourable state.’ But if it is cheerful it is not poverty at all. It is not the man who has too little who is poor, but the one who hankers after more. What difference does it make how much there is laid away in a man’s safe or in his barns, how many head of stock he grazes or how much capital he puts out at interest, if he is always after what is another’s and only counts what he has yet to get, never what he has already. You ask what is the proper limit to a person’s wealth? First, having what is essential, and second, having what is enough.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 585
But if you are looking on anyone as a friend when you do not trust him as you trust yourself, you are making a grave mistake, and have failed to grasp sufficiently the full force of true friendship.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 589
Think for a long time whether or not you should admit a given person to your friendship.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 590
You should, I need hardly say, live in such a way that there is nothing which you could not as easily tell your enemy as keep to yourself; but seeing that certain matters do arise on which convention decrees silence,
                

Orange highlight | Location: 598
Trusting everyone is as much a fault as trusting no one (though I should call the first the worthier and the second the safer behaviour).
                

Orange highlight | Location: 601
‘Some men have shrunk so far into dark corners that objects in bright daylight seem quite blurred to them.’ A balanced combination of the two attitudes is what we want; the active man should be able to take things easily, while the man who is inclined towards repose should be capable of action. Ask nature: she will tell you that she made both day and night.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 607
refrain from following the example of those whose craving is for attention, not their own improvement,
                
Note:Ambition defined

Orange highlight | Location: 610
The very name of philosophy, however modest the manner in which it is pursued, is unpopular enough as it is: imagine what the reaction would be if we started dissociating ourselves from the conventions of society. Inwardly everything should be different but our outward face should conform with the crowd.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 620
Philosophy calls for simple living, not for doing penance, and the simple way of life need not be a crude one.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 631
Both are mainly due to projecting our thoughts far ahead of us instead of adapting ourselves to the present. Thus it is that foresight, the greatest blessing humanity has been given, is transformed into a curse.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 649
it. There is no enjoying the possession of anything valuable unless one has someone to share it with.
                
Note:I disagree, and I would rephrase this as there being no pleasure that isn't made the greater by being shared

Orange highlight | Location: 659
writings of Hecato today. ‘What progress have I made? I am beginning to be my own friend.’ That is progress indeed. Such a person will never be alone, and you may be sure he is a friend of all.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 661
YOU ask me to say what you should consider it particularly important to avoid. My answer is this: a mass crowd.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 707
that you may scorn the pleasure that comes from the majority’s approval. The many speak highly of you, but have you really any grounds for satisfaction with yourself if you are the kind of person the many understand?
                

Orange highlight | Location: 760
The difference here between the Epicurean and our own school is this: our wise man feels his troubles but overcomes them, while their wise man does not even feel them.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 804
The wise man, he said, lacked nothing but needed a great number of things, whereas ‘the fool, on the other hand, needs nothing (for he does not know how to use anything) but lacks everything.’ The wise man needs hands and eyes and a great number of things that are required for the purposes of day-to-day life; but he lacks nothing, for lacking something implies that it is a necessity and nothing, to the wise man, is a necessity.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 808
need
                
Note:Perhaps 'desires' would be a better word choice?

Orange highlight | Location: 897
Fruit tastes most delicious just when its season is ending.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 919
‘To live under constraint is a misfortune, but there is no constraint to live under constraint.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 972
making noble resolutions is not as important as keeping the resolutions you have made already.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 998
another saying of Epicurus: ‘If you shape your life according to nature, you will never be poor; if according to people’s opinions, you will never be rich.’ Nature’s wants are small, while those of opinion are limitless.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,025
set aside now and then a number of days during which you will be content with the plainest of food, and very little of it, and with rough, coarse clothing, and will ask yourself, ‘Is this what one used to dread?’ It is in times of security that the spirit should be preparing itself to deal with difficult times;
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,139
something that can never be learnt too thoroughly can never be said too often.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,211
It is disgraceful that a man who is old or in sight of old age should have a wisdom deriving solely from his notebook. ‘Zeno said this.’ And what have you said? ‘Cleanthes said that.’ What have you said? How much longer are you going to serve under others’ orders? Assume authority yourself and utter something that may be handed down to posterity. Produce something from your own resources.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,220
‘The living voice,’ it may be answered, ‘counts for a great deal.’ Not when it is just acting in a kind of secretarial capacity, making itself an instrument for what others have to say.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,224
a man who follows someone else not only does not find anything, he is not even looking. ‘But surely you are going to walk in your predecessors’ footsteps?’ Yes indeed, I shall use the old road, but if I find a shorter and easier one I shall open it up. The men who pioneered the old routes are leaders, not our masters.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,246
nothing can be well-regulated if it is done in a breakneck hurry.
                
Note:I feel this way about coding interviews

Orange highlight | Location: 1,254
Language, moreover, which devotes its attention to truth ought to be plain and unadorned. This popular style has nothing to do with truth. Its object is to sway a mass audience, to carry away unpractised ears by the force of its onslaught.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,258
There is, moreover, a great deal of futility and emptiness about this style of speaking, which has more noise about it than effectiveness.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,337
It was a joy, not just a pleasure, to read it.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,390
treat your inferiors in the way in which you would like to be treated by your own superiors.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,409
A man who examines the saddle and bridle and not the animal itself when he is out to buy a horse is a fool; similarly, only an absolute fool values a man according to his clothes, or according to his social position, which after all is only something that we wear like clothing.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,415
there’s no state of slavery more disgraceful than one which is self-imposed.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,437
No one can lead a happy life if he thinks only of himself and turns everything to his own purposes.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,441
What I should like those subtle thinkers – you know the ones I mean, my peerless Lucilius – to teach me is this, what my duties are to a friend and to a man, rather than the number of senses in which the expression ‘friend’ is used and how many different meanings the word ‘man’ has. Before my very eyes wisdom and folly are taking their separate stands:
                

Blue highlight | Location: 1,449
‘Mouse is a syllable, and a mouse nibbles cheese; therefore, a syllable nibbles cheese.’ Suppose for the moment I can’t detect the fallacy in that. What danger am I placed in by such lack of insight? What serious consequences are there in it for me? What I have to fear, no doubt, is the possibility, one of these days, of my catching a syllable in a mousetrap or even having my cheese eaten up by a book if I’m not careful.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,523
When some state or other offered Alexander a part of its territory and half of all its property he told them that ‘he hadn’t come to Asia with the intention of accepting whatever they cared to give him, but of letting them keep whatever he chose to leave them.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,531
Look at that for an achievement, to have all the frailty of a human being and all the freedom from care of a god.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,548
I had a try at him a long while ago myself.’ ‘When was this?’ you’ll say. Before I was born. Death is just not being. What that is like I know already. It will be the same after me as it was before me.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,563
He escapes necessity because he wills what necessity is going to force on him.
                
Note:Probably want to reword this, he escapes the sense of forceful imposition by removing his sense of volition?

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,672
‘This is all very well,’ you may say, ‘but isn’t it sometimes a lot simpler just to keep away from the din?’ I concede that, and in fact it is the reason why I shall shortly be moving elsewhere.
                
Note:After going on for an entire letter about the importance of building resilience to noises, in this case living above a public bathhouse, we get this passage. Kind of hilarious and how it trivializes everything that was just said

Pink highlight | Location: 1,684
Would you like to know what lies behind extravagant weeping and wailing? In our tears we are trying to find means of proving that we feel the loss. We are not being governed by our grief but parading it. No one ever goes into mourning for the benefit merely of himself. Oh, the miserable folly of it all – that there should be an element of ostentation in grief!
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,699
For when I had them with me it was with the feeling that I was going to lose them, and now that I have lost them I keep the feeling that I have them with me still.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,708
If we have no other friends, we have done ourselves a greater injury than fortune has done us: she has deprived us of a single friend but we have deprived ourselves of every friend we have failed to make.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,719
Nothing makes itself unpopular quite so quickly as a person’s grief. When it is fresh it attracts people to its side, finds someone to offer it consolation; but if it is perpetuated it becomes an object of ridicule – deservedly, too, for it is either feigned or foolish.
                
Note:This reminds me of Jenny, although maybe grief can be exchanged for self-pity or perhaps victimhood

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,722
And all this comes to you from me, the very man who wept for Annaeus Serenus, that dearest of friends to me, so unrestrainedly that I must needs be included – though this is the last thing I should want – among examples of men who have been defeated by grief! Nevertheless I condemn today the way I behaved then. I realize now that my sorrowing in the way I did was mainly due to the fact that I had never considered the possibility of his dying before me. That he was younger than I was, a good deal younger too, was all that ever occurred to me – as if fate paid any regard to seniority!
                
Note:Self hypocrisy noted

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,739
cause and matter.
                
Note:Note that this is actually modern science as well, if you replace cause with energy. Although to be fair, or rather less forgiving, was men here is probably more like intent or purpose rather than energy. But before computers, it was probably difficult to conceive of the workings of the brain as a result of a certain construction of matter and it's interaction with energy

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,765
As Plato has it, then, there are five causes: the material, the agent, the form, the model and the end; and finally we get the result of all these. In the case of the statue, to use the example we began with, the material is
                
Note:In reinforcement learning, you have an agent (which has state and the ability to perform certain actions), environment, model of environment (optional), and policy.  You also have a reward and value function, but those are important for learning across iterations whereas this passage deals with acting within a single iteration

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,766
the bronze, the agent is the sculptor, the form is the guise it is given, the model is what the sculptor making it copies, the end is what the maker has in view, and the final result is the statue itself.
                

Orange highlight | Location: 1,795
the soul is in captivity unless philosophy comes to its rescue, bidding it breathe more freely in the contemplation of nature, releasing it from earthly into heavenly surroundings. This to the soul means freedom, the ability to wander far and free; it steals away for a while from the prison in which it is confined and has its strength renewed in the world above.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,803
He endures the lot of mortality even though he knows there is a finer one in store for him.
                
Note:Not a consolation for me

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,804
Are you telling me not to investigate the natural world?
                
Note:I think an additional, and better, defense here is that stoicism is an attempt to act in accordance with nature, and so it understanding of nature is prerequisite for determining the best way to live in accordance with it

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,820
God, encompassed within them, controls them all, they
                
Note:Nothing to be gleaned from stoics as far as science is concerned

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,840
I should still have more left to cover the journey than distance left to be covered – especially as the journey on which we have all set out is one which does not have to be travelled to the very end.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,885
‘I shall not be a slave!’ He was as good as his word. The first time he was ordered to perform a slave’s task, some humiliating household job (his actual orders were to fetch a disgusting chamber pot), he dashed his head against a wall and cracked his skull open. Freedom is as near as that – is anyone really still a slave?
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,031
For a life spent viewing all the variety, the majesty, the sublimity in things around us can never succumb to ennui: the feeling that one is tired of being, of existing, is usually the result of an idle and inactive leisure. Truth will never pall on someone who explores the world
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,039
As Posidonius said, ‘In a single day there lies open to men of learning more than there ever does to the unenlightened in the longest of lifetimes.’
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,052
A very small part of it has been given over to physical exercise – and on this account I’m grateful for old age, for the exercise costs me little trouble. I only have to stir and I’m weary, and that after all is the end of exercise even for the strongest.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,066
then have the briefest of naps. You know this habit of mine, of dropping off for a moment or two, just slipping off the harness, as you might say. I find it enough to have simply stopped being awake.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,173
according to our Virgil, who was not concerned with the facts but with poetic effect, his object being the pleasure of the reader, not the instruction of the farmer.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,292
the ideal limit with things you desire is not the amount you would like to but the amount you ought to take.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,296
simplicity, or modesty and restraint, or frugality and thrift, or mercy,
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,355
As things are, there is about wisdom a nobility and magnificence in the fact that she doesn’t just fall to a person’s lot, that each man owes her to his own efforts,
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,361
people cease to possess everything as soon as they want everything for themselves.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,381
I will not claim for philosophy a fame that belongs to technology.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,407
The wise man then followed a simple way of life – which is hardly surprising when you consider how even in this modern age he seeks to be as little encumbered as he possibly can.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,419
The things that are essential are acquired with little bother; it is the luxuries that call for toil and effort.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,483
she is not, I insist, the manufacturer of equipment for everyday essential purposes. Why must you make her responsible for such insignificant things?
                
Note:Snobbish conservative 

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,558
there is a world of difference between, on the one hand, choosing not to do what is wrong and, on the other, not knowing how to do it in the first place.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,601
if we do not want to be overwhelmed and struck numb by rare events
                
Note:What a silly goal, why not be struck dunb for a few days during rare events.  Or a few weeks fof a tragedy.  insteaxd we are urged to waste loads of time preparing for any given tragedy?  very inefficient

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,648
What could be more foolish than a man’s being afraid of people’s words?
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,649
the utterances of the unenlightened are as noises emanating from the belly. ‘What difference does it make to me,’ he asks, ‘whether their rumblings come from their upper or their nether regions?’
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,656
no one has power over us when death is within our own power.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,665
The consequence is that since I haven’t managed to get her to put a little more bravery into her love for me, she has managed to induce me to show a little more love and care for myself. For concessions have to be made to legitimate emotions.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,771
It’s not because they’re hard that we lose confidence; they’re hard because we lack the confidence.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,824
slave or free, there isn’t a man who hasn’t power enough to do you injury. Besides, to be feared is to fear: no one has been able to strike terror into others and at the same time enjoy peace of mind himself.

