However, if Marx had not been more than a purveyor of phraseology, he would be dead by now. Mankind is not grateful for that sort of service and forgets quickly the names of the people who write the librettos for its political operas.

Yellow highlight | Location: 241
Call Marxist religion a counterfeit if you like, or a caricature of faith—there is plenty to be said for this view—but do not overlook or fail to admire the greatness of the achievement.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 259
he undoubtedly falsified the true psychology of the workman (which centers in the wish to become a small bourgeois and to be helped to that status by political force),
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 355
of production themselves have a logic of their own; that is to say, they change according to necessities inherent in them so as to produce their successors merely by their own working.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 436
For to call for a guffaw is no doubt an excellent method of disposing of an uncomfortable truth, as every politician knows to his profit.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 480
it misses the salient point about social classes—the incessant rise and fall of individual families into and out of the upper strata.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 597
labor theory of value
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 607
Both Ricardo and Marx say that the value of every commodity is (in perfect equilibrium and perfect competition) proportional to the quantity of labor contained in the commodity, provided this labor is in accordance with the existing standard of efficiency of production
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 615
The essential point is not whether labor is the true “source” or “cause” of economic value. This question may be of primary interest to social philosophers who want to deduce from it ethical claims to the product,
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 656
The masses have not always felt themselves to be
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 656
frustrated and exploited. But the intellectuals that formulated their views for them have always told them that they were,
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 681
By appropriating it the capitalist “exploits” labor, though he pays to the laborers not less than the full value of their labor potential and receives from consumers not more than the full value of the products he sells.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 759
Economic progress, in capitalist society, means turmoil. And, as we shall see in the next part, in this turmoil competition works in a manner completely different from the way it would work in a stationary process, however perfectly competitive. Possibilities of gains to be reaped by producing new things or by producing old things more cheaply are constantly materializing and calling for new investments. These new products and new methods compete with the old products and old methods not on equal terms but at a decisive advantage that may mean death to the latter. This is how “progress” comes about in capitalist society. In order to escape being undersold, every firm is in the end compelled to follow suit, to invest in its turn and, in order to be able to do so, to plow back part of its profits, i.e., to accumulate.14 Thus, everyone else accumulates.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 854
(theory of compensation, the pet aversion of all Marxists).
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 869
integument
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 912
He aptly says that “the superficiality of Political Economy shows itself in the fact that it looks upon expansion and contraction of credit, which is a mere symptom of the periodic changes of the industrial cycle, as their cause.”
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,134
otiose.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,162
Synthesis in general, i.e., coordination of the methods and results of different lines of advance, is a difficult thing which few are competent to tackle. In consequence it is ordinarily not tackled at all and from the students who are taught to see only individual trees we hear discontented clamor for the forest. They fail to realize however that the trouble is in part an embarras de richesse and that the synthetic forest may look uncommonly like an intellectual concentration camp.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,185
deus ex machina by virtue of the mysterious wisdom of a doubtful species of mammals deferentially referred to as “statesmen.”
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,189
newspaper world to whom the gods seem to have granted the gift of eternal youth. Panting with impatience to have their innings, longing to save the world from something or other, disgusted with textbooks of un-describable tedium, dissatisfied emotionally and intellectually, unable to achieve synthesis by their own effort, they find what they crave for in Marx. There it is, the key to all the most intimate secrets, the magic wand that marshals both great events and small. They are beholding an explanatory schema that at the same time is—if I may for a moment lapse into Hegelianism—most general and most concrete. They need no longer feel out of it in the great affairs of life— all at once they see through the pompous marionettes of politics and business who never know what it is all about. And who can blame them, considering available alternatives?
                
Note:Seems to describe the social justice warrior mentality of today

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,279
the facts in question combine the virtues of being superficially known to everyone and of being thoroughly understood by very few.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,326
take advantage of the popular sentiment and it has fostered it; but it is absurd to say that it has created it.
                
Note:Basically every marxian conspiracy about interest groups comes down to this

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,560
lighting is no great boon to anyone who has money enough to buy a sufficient number of candles and to pay servants to attend to them. It is the cheap cloth, the cheap cotton and rayon fabric, boots, motorcars and so on that are the typical achievements of capitalist production, and not as a rule improvements that would mean much to the rich man. Queen Elizabeth owned silk stockings. The capitalist achievement does not typically consist in providing more silk stockings for queens but in bringing them within the reach of factory girls in return for steadily decreasing amounts of effort.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,587
The most important one of those that remain, housing, is approaching solution by means of the pre-fabricated house.
                
Note:Haha

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,705
the personal achievement that goes into any particular success, the premiums actually paid out would probably not be found proportional to either. Spectacular prizes much greater than would have been necessary to call forth the particular effort are thrown to a small minority of winners, thus propelling much more efficaciously than a more equal and more “just” distribution would, the activity of that large majority of businessmen who receive in return very modest compensation or nothing or less than nothing, and yet do their utmost because they have the big prizes before their eyes and overrate their chances of doing equally well.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,718
On the contrary, most methods of social selection, unlike the “methods” of biological selection, do not guarantee performance of the selected individual; and their failure to do so constitutes one of the crucial problems of socialist
                
Note:Capitalism has a selective mechanism built into it which is not the result of arbitrary social whim 

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,745
the enemies and successors of the classics had and have only different but not fewer blinkers and preconceptions; they envisaged and envisage different but not less special cases.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,879
the creation of an entirely imaginary golden age of perfect competition that at some time somehow metamorphosed itself into the monopolistic age, whereas it is quite clear that perfect competition has at no time been more of a reality than it is at present.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,891
a shocking suspicion dawns upon us that big business may have had more to do with creating that standard of life than with keeping it down.
                
Note:Can we talk about free enterprise at the level of the team or the individual even, rather than obsessing over the Firm?  individuals innovate, not companies .  perhaps large companies provide wealth and stability that allow for ingenuity, rather like a global hegemony issuing in a pax romana or pax Americana.  Competition is a good stimulant for innovation, fear and insecurity probably have the oppositw effect.  i think that competition should be rexamined in this light ; people innovate, not companies 

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,901
Capitalism, then, is by nature a form or method of economic change and not only never is but never can be stationary.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,933
usually being visualized is how capitalism administers existing structures, whereas the relevant problem is how it creates and destroys them.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,009
If for instance a war risk is insurable, nobody objects to a firm’s collecting the cost of this insurance from the buyers of its products. But that risk is no less an element in long-run costs, if there are no facilities for insuring against it, in which case a price strategy aiming at the same end will seem to involve unnecessary restriction and to be productive of excess profits.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,040
In some cases, however, it is so successful as to yield profits far above what is necessary in order to induce the corresponding investment. These cases then provide the baits that lure capital on to untried trails. Their presence explains in part how it is possible for so large a section of the capitalist world to work for nothing: in the midst of the prosperous twenties just about half of the business corporations in the United States were run at a loss, at zero profits, or at profits which, if they had been foreseen, would have been inadequate to call forth the effort and expenditure involved.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,528
even the inventing itself, as will be more fully explained in a moment, was a function of the capitalist process which is responsible for the mental habits that will produce invention.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,552
held by many with whom the wish is not father to the thought.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,654
All that can be averred is that this was the road by which events traveled. It does not follow that there was no other.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,776
influences derived from non-empirical sources.2 The similarity of this type of mental process with the mental processes of neurotics has been pointed out by G. Dromard (1911; his term, délire d’nterpretation, is particularly suggestive) and S. Freud (Totem und Tabu, 1913). But it does not follow that it is foreign to the mind of normal man of our own time. On the contrary, any discussion of political issues may convince the reader that a large and—for action—most important body of our own processes is of exactly the same nature.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,831
by creating the social space for a new class that stood upon individual achievement in the economic field, it in turn attracted to that field the strong wills and the strong intellects. Precapitalist economic life left no scope for achievement that would carry over class boundaries
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,838
It was only when capitalist enterprise—first commercial and financial, then mining, finally industrial—unfolded its possibilities that supernormal ability and ambition began to turn to business as a third avenue.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,844
So, in this sense, capitalism—and not merely economic activity in general—has after all been the propelling force of the rationalization of human behavior.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,916
the more completely capitalist the structure and attitude of a nation, the more pacifist—and the more prone to count the costs of war—we observe it to be.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,931
one may care less for the efficiency of the capitalist process in producing economic and cultural values than for the kind of human beings that it turns out and then leaves to their own devices,
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,932
There is a type of radical whose adverse verdict about capitalist civilization rests on nothing except stupidity, ignorance or irresponsibility, who is unable or unwilling to grasp the most obvious facts, let alone their wider implications. But a completely adverse verdict may also be arrived at on a higher plane.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,047
if capitalist evolution— “progress”—either ceases or becomes completely automatic, the economic basis of the industrial bourgeoisie will be reduced eventually to wages such as are paid for current administrative work
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,116
Of the industrialist and merchant the opposite is true. There is surely no trace of any mystic glamour about him which is what counts in the ruling of men. The stock exchange is a poor substitute
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,121
have called the bourgeois rationalist and unheroic.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,124
Nor are his experiences and habits of life of the kind that develop personal fascination.
                
Note:I remember thinking that Rockefeller was incredibly dull, when i was reading his biography .

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,141
But without protection by some non-bourgeois group, the bourgeoisie is politically helpless and unable not only to lead its nation but even to take care of its particular class interest. Which amounts to saying that it needs a master.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,181
the political consequences of concentration would still be what they are. The political structure of a nation is profoundly affected by the elimination of a host of small and medium-sized firms
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,209
loosens the grip that once was so strong—the grip in the sense of the legal right and the actual ability to do as one pleases with one’s own;
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,230
capitalism creates a critical frame of mind which, after having destroyed the moral authority of so many other institutions, in the end turns against its own; the bourgeois finds to his amazement that the rationalist attitude does not stop at the credentials of kings and popes but goes on to attack private property and the whole scheme of bourgeois values.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,258
People at large would have to be possessed of an insight and a power of analysis which are altogether beyond them.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,280
the mass of people never develops definite opinions on its own initiative. Still less is it able to articulate them and to turn them into consistent attitudes and actions.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,303
Intellectuals are in fact people who wield the power of the spoken and the written word, and one of the touches that distinguish them from other people who do the same is the absence of direct responsibility for practical affairs. This touch in general accounts for another—the absence of that first-hand knowledge of them which only actual experience can give.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,306
from the fact that his main chance of asserting himself lies in his actual or potential nuisance value,
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,307
The people who talk about everything because they understand nothing? Bernard Shaw’s journalist in The Doctor’s Dilemma?
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,376
the bourgeois stratum, however strongly disapproving some of their doings, will rally behind them because the freedom it disapproves cannot be crushed without also crushing the freedom it approves.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,380
Only a government of non-bourgeois nature and non-bourgeois creed—under modern circumstances only a socialist or fascist one—is strong enough to discipline them. In order to do that it would have to change typically bourgeois institutions and drastically reduce the individual freedom of all strata of the nation. And such a government is not likely—it would not even be able—to stop short of private enterprise.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,428
intellectual group consists primarily in stimulating, energizing, verbalizing and organizing this material and only secondarily in adding to it.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,552
their private life a sort of inarticulate system of cost accounting —they cannot fail to become aware of the heavy personal sacrifices that family ties and especially parenthood entail under modern conditions and of the fact that at the same time, excepting the cases of farmers and peasants, children cease to be economic assets.

