Yellow highlight | Location: 242
The nine men and women taken as protagonists are not representative of British society – the sources make this impossible – but they do represent different experiences.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 256
‘Britain without a Crown’, is relevant. The decade was defined to a significant degree by what was being rejected. Indeed part of the reason for the fall of the republic was that its protagonists agreed far more on what they did not want than what they sought in its place.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 644
the decision to undertake a military purge of Parliament involved neither of the two most senior officers of the army. Thomas, now Lord Fairfax, the head of the army, was strangely distant, and it was only after the decision was taken that he was informed of ‘the necessity of this extraordinary way of proceeding’. His deputy, Oliver Cromwell, had not even been in London on 5 December, but was travelling south from Scotland.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 809
House of Lords had been excluded from discussion about the trial of Charles I, it was unclear if this was a permanent exclusion. On Tuesday 6 February the Commons debated whether the House of Lords should be allowed to re-enter the arena of government.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 837
At first, in an egalitarian spirit, there was to be no single chairman, but after a month of meetings it became obvious that a ‘Lord President’ was in fact required.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 894
put about and popularized by the printing presses which were now overrun with business.
                
Note:Pamplets not as useful with monarchy, where public appeal through propaganda is worthless 

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,127
while these army grandees had once been rebels themselves, they would tolerate no disobedience in their new regime.
                
Note:And why each regime attempt to legitimize themselves (appeal to historical continuity or idealistic/moral superiority) instead of rebelling openly for their own gain

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,154
hopes of the minority who had pined for revolution were so high that the reality of life after the regicide was bound to be a disappointment.
                
Note:Many actors want power to remain concentrated, they just want themselves to hold the power.  So the aspiring elites enlist the masses with promises of reform and devokution of power, but they intend to keep power as it is.

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,159
Church attendance was still compulsory, as was adherence to a long list of beliefs, including the Trinity, the resurrection of Christ, the truth of the Bible and the resurrection of the dead, on pain of imprisonment.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,164
The unedifying truth was that the real opposition to the Diggers would not originate from on high, the Council of State or the army – indeed, Fairfax clearly had a soft spot for these rural romantics – but from the ordinary people of their locality.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,221
the law was a closed shop, conducted in Latin and French, to the absolute exclusion of non-professionals.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,293
if Winstanley could prove it from scripture,
                
Note:I am reminded of the emergence of judaic law and islamic law, and how once things were written down they could be appealed to, anf that this gave rise to the lawyer/scholar jew/muslim.  Christianity seems to have taken a different turn, with the only advance being using scriotureto understand rhe natural world, with the advancement being the replacedment of this with science

Yellow highlight | Location: 1,304
‘appear to the view of all men, that you cut off the King’s head, [so] that you might establish yourselves in the chair of government’. Had they in fact executed ‘the King for his power and government as a thief kills a true man for his money’?
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,045
In the year 1500 just over fifty books were printed in England, in 1600 the number was 300, come 1648 more than 2,300 titles poured off the presses in a single year. Perhaps 30 per cent of all men and 10 per cent of all women could read, and over double those percentages in the capital,
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,223
achieve such a shift it would not be by learned disputation.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,274
‘It must be written in a jocular way,’ he explained; to sway the opinions of the ‘multitude’ required not dense disputation, but amusement and ‘phantasie’ that would delight and charm.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,350
friendship with those who ought to have despised him, in large part because he made them laugh.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,395
Each pair of pages of type, locked into place in an iron frame, was placed, face-up, on a block of stone set into a sliding carriage. The pressmen applied ink to the upturned letters by dabbing them with a soft leather inking ball. A wooden frame
                
Note:Early printing press part 1

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,398
containing a large sheet of paper was then lowered onto the letters and this whole assemblage slid on wooden rails into the press itself. By means of a handle the pressmen lowered a block of perfectly flat wood or stone known as the ‘platen’ onto the paper from above, so pressing it down onto the inked letters. Raising the platen and drawing the carriage back, they opened the frame, and peeled the freshly printed paper off the metal type. This was handed over to their colleagues who draped each one over the latticework of wooden rails suspended from the printing house ceiling.
                
Note:Printing press 2

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,449
passed an act declaring that all legal proceedings, hitherto conducted almost exclusively in Latin or French, would be in English alone from the following Easter. Furthermore, the antiquated script, known as ‘court hand’, in which all legal paperwork was written, was to be abandoned and instead ‘every of them shall be written in an ordinary usual and legible hand and character’. As a piece of legal modernization it may have lacked the complex cleverness beloved of lawyers but, in a single step, English people’s ability to understand the legal processes to which they might find themselves subjected was transformed.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,472
anti-professionalism had come to the fore
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,624
great changes to the parish churches of England, the hub of social and spiritual life of almost all ordinary people.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,639
she saw the return to England of the Jews, exiled since the Middle Ages.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 2,728
John Bradshaw, as he vacated his Whitehall rooms, still reeled with disbelief that the Rump Parliament had been marched out of the chamber by the army.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,223
direct taxes were now some ten times higher than when the L’Estranges were first married.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,235
The Puritans in power in London were certainly keen on stamping out drunkenness, vagrancy and sinfulness in general.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,346
Instrument of Government had set out the voting franchise, which excluded royalists, Catholics and those with assets worth less than £200,
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,367
opening the eyes of many young members who had never before heard their interest so clearly stated and asserted’.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,524
new approach to governing England which was to be military as much as civilian. The country was being carved into territorial regions, each the domain of a senior army officer or ‘Major General’. The Major Generals’ remit was to be wide-ranging, but at its core was an ominous combination of eradicating royalist resistance and enforcing moral reformation.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,528
The Major Generals, assisted by a corps of ‘commissioners’, were to identify all royalists and Catholics, imprison those believed to be active, force all others to enter into hefty financial bonds as security for their loyalty, confiscate their arms and support a new national surveillance regime.
                
Note:Reminds me of the communist party

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,530
funding of this massive new undertaking was a challenge, not least as maintaining the existing military establishment was already beyond the regime’s means
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,532
the infrastructure would be entirely paid for by a punitive new levy on all royalists of any wealth. The tax – instantly known as ‘decimation’ – was set at the rate of 10 per cent
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,608
All royalists arriving in or leaving the capital were required to report
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,768
He lived on his wits and the proceeds from card tricks and buying and selling trinkets.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,793
The fracturing of the traditional structures of national life that accompanied the civil war made England particularly fertile ground for such new thinking. The lack of a single strong church or functioning national censorship regime in the 1640s gave rise to a disorderly but unusually free intellectual environment.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,813
William Petty was as convinced a follower of the new philosophy as any of his contemporaries. He mocked those who still spent their time bent over books, for ‘discoveries and improvements’ would not be found in trawling the work of others. He had decided the previous year to stop reading altogether
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,823
Sons of the greatest families, he believed, should learn the practical skills of the artisan, while conversely ‘many are now holding the plough which might have been fit to steere the state’.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,852
To those who did not interest him he was sharp, unforgiving and supercilious, quick to dismiss or deride for stupidity. To those he cared about – his ‘ingenious friends’, his family and select others – he was altogether different: wry, funny and kind, if sometimes in a clumsy or ill-judged way.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,905
The ‘Act for the Settlement of Ireland’ of August 1652 laid out the terms of the ruthless peace that was now to be enforced. The ramifications of this legislation were seismic. The very poorest Irishmen and women, the labourers and ploughmen with less than £10 to their names, were to be pardoned. But there the mercy ended. Everyone else who had not actively supported the Commonwealth army was to pay a towering price. A huge number of the prime movers and actual combatants were to be executed and all the rest were to suffer mass forfeiture of lands. Those who had surrendered and pledged complete loyalty to the new regime were to be allowed to retain a portion of their acreage, however this was not to be any part of their own property but a quite different allocation in the far west of Ireland. This was the infamous policy of ‘transplantation’.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,985
This Oxford academic, who had no experience of surveying or map-making whatsoever, nor even of managing any significant human enterprise, was now proposing to undertake the most ambitious
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 3,989
Petty, for his own part, was driven by unshakable self-belief and a conviction that ‘by attempting new difficulties’ he would ‘stretch my own capacity and intellect, the which (like leather on a last) is not only formed and fashioned, but much extended by such Employment’.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 4,011
the large magnetic compasses, wood turners could make the staffs and stands for fieldwork and wire makers could manufacture the long measuring chains.
                
Note:Basically civil engineers ... Mostly procedural measuring persons

Yellow highlight | Location: 4,319
‘I cannt digest that Honest-Moderate-Wealthy Catholicks should lose their Estates for what a Company of Lewd, Ignorant, Barbarous and Beggerly Rascals did against the English in the Tumultary year 1642’.35 William Petty reckoned that before the war the Irish had owned some two-thirds of the land. Now, he calculated, Protestants from mainland Britain owned three-quarters of the land, nine-tenths of the property in towns and two-thirds of all overseas trade.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 4,621
The irony was to many unmistakable: that precisely what the Long Parliament had accused Charles I of fifteen years before – raising unsanctioned taxes, dismissing Parliament summarily, forcing people to change how they worshipped, trampling on traditional freedoms, taking up arms against his own people – could all now be said of the English Protectorate.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 5,178
The Scottish experience of subjugation to the English Commonwealth was, however, a different one from the Irish. The Scots were, on the whole, committed Protestants who had been the first to take a stand against Charles I’s religious innovations in the late 1630s. There had been no equivalent in Scotland to the large-scale sectarian atrocities, so luridly and unevenly reported, that defined the English attitude to the Irish.
                

Yellow highlight | Location: 5,297
Lord Protector had dissolved Parliament ‘for diverse weighty reasons’.
                
Note:Trump?

Yellow highlight | Location: 5,797
once you had decided on a course of action, even if with reluctance, it paid to espouse it with enthusiasm.

